README.md, before:

# Nx with Fastify API and React UI via ts-rest

An [Nx](https://nx.dev) monorepo featuring a [Fastify](https://fastify.dev/) back-end API and [React](https://react.dev/) front-end that exchange data via [ts-rest](https://ts-rest.com/).

API documentation based on the ts-rest contract is generated via Swagger/OpenAPI.

ts-rest offers comparable benefits to developer efficiency and developer experience vs. [TRPC](https://trpc.io/) except it is implementing using JSON/REST under the hood.

ts-rest includes support for Express/Fastify/NestJS and React/Vue and is designed to support incremental adoption by development teams working with legacy codebases.

### About this Repo

The code in this repo can serve as a reference boilerplate/template for new full-stack projects.

The official examples in the ts-rest repo are somewhat intermixed meanwhile this repo provides a structure that is consistent with a real application. The Fastify API structure is based on the Nx generator boilerplate vs. the example which provides a more scalable foundation to build new features. 

The implementation of the blog is a non-functional mock sourced from examples in the ts-rest GitHub repo: 
https://github.com/ts-rest/ts-rest/tree/main/apps

The UI is created using Vite + React + TypeScript + TailwindCSS. It includes examples of both the fetch-based and react-query-based client libraries provided by ts-rest.

The shared contract between the client + server is defined in `packages/common/contracts`.

## Architecture Value

ts-rest is arguably superior strategic choice for client-server communications in most types of real-world business applications vs. newer protocols such as TRPC, gRPC, and GraphQL.

There can be many advantages to embracing mature, widely-supported, and well-understood protocols that are easy to implement and maintain. 

Internal stakeholders, customers, and partners across any industry can easily integrate with JSON REST API's and the _largest_ ecosystem of software and tools are at their disposal.

ts-rest provides developers with a highly productive TRPC-like experience that enhances developer efficiency and delivers end-to-end type safety: https://ts-rest.com/docs/intro

## Development

### Development Setup

The project assumes a linux/unix environment (Windows users can use WSL2) that includes pnpm and a recent version of NodeJS.

Copy `nx-cloud.env.sample` to create `nx-cloud.env`. 

Consider signing up for an Nx Cloud Account to provide an API key.
If would not like to connect to Nx Cloud, edit `nx.json` and replace the `tasksRunnerOptions` block with the following:

```json
    "tasksRunnerOptions": {
      "default": {
        "runner": "nx/tasks-runners/default",
        "options": {
          "cacheableOperations": ["build", "lint", "test", "e2e"],
        },
      },
    },
```

Copy `.env.sample` to create `.env` for each of: `apps/fastify-api` and `apps/react-ui`.

### Development Workflow

Run `pnpm install` to install dependencies.

Run `pnpm dev` to start the development server for both the API and UI.

The API runs on port 3939 and the UI runs on port 4200.

A proxy configuration in `apps/react-ui/proxy.conf.json` will proxy requests to http://127.0.0.1:4200/api to the back-end API.

If you make a change to the contract it is recommended to restart the development server. If your changes still don't seem to get picked up try rebuilding.

## Build

Run `pnpm build:all` to build the API, UI, and the shared package containing the contract.

The shared contract library is configured as a "publishable" package.

The package's configuration is an example of how to configure Nx's esbuild builder to compile for both CommonJS and ESM.

## Using Nx to Run Tasks

The following is retained from the Nx boilerplate README.

To execute tasks with Nx use the following syntax:

```
pnpm nx <target> <project> <...options>
```

You can also run multiple targets:

```
pnpm nx run-many -t <target1> <target2>
```

..or add `-p` to filter specific projects

```
pnpm nx run-many -t <target1> <target2> -p <proj1> <proj2>
```

Targets can be defined in the `package.json` or `projects.json`.
Learn more [in the docs](https://nx.dev/core-features/run-tasks).

Check out the [Nx Console extensions](https://nx.dev/nx-console) for VSCode extensions and other tools for working with Nx.

## Set up CI

Nx comes with local caching already built-in (check your `nx.json`). On CI you might want to go a step further.

- [Set up remote caching](https://nx.dev/core-features/share-your-cache)
- [Set up task distribution across multiple machines](https://nx.dev/core-features/distribute-task-execution)
- [Learn more how to setup CI](https://nx.dev/recipes/ci)

Commit message:

docs: update README with note

README.md, after:

# Nx with Fastify API and React UI via ts-rest

## UPDATE This branch kills nx and replaces it entirely with pnpm workspaces

...Its suddenly so easy to bump packages to current, nothing breaks with each update, CJS vs. ESM issues to troubleshoot at every step are eliminated... Magic!

## Old README

An [Nx](https://nx.dev) monorepo featuring a [Fastify](https://fastify.dev/) back-end API and [React](https://react.dev/) front-end that exchange data via [ts-rest](https://ts-rest.com/).

API documentation based on the ts-rest contract is generated via Swagger/OpenAPI.

ts-rest offers comparable benefits to developer efficiency and developer experience vs. [TRPC](https://trpc.io/) except it is implementing using JSON/REST under the hood.

ts-rest includes support for Express/Fastify/NestJS and React/Vue and is designed to support incremental adoption by development teams working with legacy codebases.

## Resources

https://github.com/ts-rest/ts-rest (refer to examples under both apps and libs)

### About this Repo

The code in this repo can serve as a reference boilerplate/template for new full-stack projects.

The official examples in the ts-rest repo are somewhat intermixed meanwhile this repo provides a structure that is consistent with a real application. The Fastify API structure is based on the Nx generator boilerplate vs. the example which provides a more scalable foundation to build new features.

The implementation of the blog is a non-functional mock sourced from examples in the ts-rest GitHub repo:
https://github.com/ts-rest/ts-rest/tree/main/apps

The UI is created using Vite + React + TypeScript + TailwindCSS. It includes examples of both the fetch-based and react-query-based client libraries provided by ts-rest.

The shared contract between the client + server is defined in `packages/common/contracts`.

## Architecture Value

ts-rest is arguably superior strategic choice for client-server communications in most types of real-world business applications vs. newer protocols such as TRPC, gRPC, and GraphQL.

There can be many advantages to embracing mature, widely-supported, and well-understood protocols that are easy to implement and maintain.

Internal stakeholders, customers, and partners across any industry can easily integrate with JSON REST API's and the _largest_ ecosystem of software and tools are at their disposal.

ts-rest provides developers with a highly productive TRPC-like experience that enhances developer efficiency and delivers end-to-end type safety: https://ts-rest.com/docs/intro

## Development

### Development Setup

The project assumes a linux/unix environment (Windows users can use WSL2) that includes pnpm and a recent version of NodeJS.

Copy `nx-cloud.env.sample` to create `nx-cloud.env`.

Consider signing up for an Nx Cloud Account to provide an API key.
If would not like to connect to Nx Cloud, edit `nx.json` and replace the `tasksRunnerOptions` block with the following:

```json
    "tasksRunnerOptions": {
      "default": {
        "runner": "nx/tasks-runners/default",
        "options": {
          "cacheableOperations": ["build", "lint", "test", "e2e"],
        },
      },
    },
```

Copy `.env.sample` to create `.env` for each of: `apps/fastify-api` and `apps/react-ui`.

### Development Workflow

Run `pnpm install` to install dependencies.

Run `pnpm dev` to start the development server for both the API and UI.

The API runs on port 3939 and the UI runs on port 4200.

A proxy configuration in `apps/react-ui/proxy.conf.json` will proxy requests to http://127.0.0.1:4200/api to the back-end API.

If you make a change to the contract it is recommended to restart the development server. If your changes still don't seem to get picked up try rebuilding.

## Build

Run `pnpm build:all` to build the API, UI, and the shared package containing the contract.

The shared contract library is configured as a "publishable" package.

The package's configuration is an example of how to configure Nx's esbuild builder to compile for both CommonJS and ESM.

## Using Nx to Run Tasks

The following is retained from the Nx boilerplate README.

To execute tasks with Nx use the following syntax:

```
pnpm nx <target> <project> <...options>
```

You can also run multiple targets:

```
pnpm nx run-many -t <target1> <target2>
```

..or add `-p` to filter specific projects

```
pnpm nx run-many -t <target1> <target2> -p <proj1> <proj2>
```

Targets can be defined in the `package.json` or `projects.json`.
Learn more [in the docs](https://nx.dev/core-features/run-tasks).

Check out the [Nx Console extensions](https://nx.dev/nx-console) for VSCode extensions and other tools for working with Nx.

## Set up CI

Nx comes with local caching already built-in (check your `nx.json`). On CI you might want to go a step further.

- [Set up remote caching](https://nx.dev/core-features/share-your-cache)
- [Set up task distribution across multiple machines](https://nx.dev/core-features/distribute-task-execution)
- [Learn more how to setup CI](https://nx.dev/recipes/ci)
